Let us now learn how to make use of Grunt.
We'll configure Grunt file
in this exercise, and
then use Grunt to automate
several off the web building
tasks that we need to do
with our development.
To get started, let's first install
the grunt command line interface.
To do that, add the command prompt type
'npm install -g grunt-cli'.
If you are using a Mac or Linux,
make sure to perceive
command with the pseudo.
Once the installation is complete, then
your machine is now ready to use crunch.
Next, go to the confusion folder and
create a file named package.jsub and
include the following
code inside package.jsub.
We are configuring this
package.jsub file with the name
of the project and
additional information here.
Next, we are going to install several
Grunt modules in order to make
use of Grunt within our project.
In the next step, let's install Grunt
locally within our conFusion project so,
that we can make use of it for
our development.
To do that, at the command prompt type
npm install grunt --save-dev.
With this, we are making sure
that Grunt is installed and
also the current configuration is saved
in the package, the adjacent file.
Once the grunt installation is completed,
let's now create a Grunt file.
Next, go to the confusion folder and
create Gruntfile.js, with a capital G.
Now, once you create the Grunt file,
inside the Grunt file,
add the code as shown here.
We are configuring the Grunt file as
module exports equal to function Grunt and
then inside that, we are specifying
the Grunt with the entered config.
Next, we're gonna configure our
project in order to make use of Grunt.
In the web page menu.html,
surround the links that
import the CSS files with the
built:CSSstyles/menu.cssComment
like we explained in the previous lecture.
So I am going to insert
the built comment here at
the beginning of the links.
Then at the end of the links,
I'm going to insert the end build.
So that everything between the build and
the end build now can be used
to buy the use min package
in order to concatenate and
css min all the css files.
Next, we're going to go to the bottom
of this menu HTML page and
then replace all the scripts there.
Going to the bottom of the menu HTML page,
you remember that we had included the
angular code here inside the script tact.
Now, we are going to take this
angular code completely and
move it off to a separate
JavaScript file called app.js.
We'll do that in the next step.
Before that I'm going
to replace the entire
script code here with a import line for
importing the app.js file.
Now, we're going to create
the app.js file for
this project inside
the app/scripts folder.
After replacing the JavaScript code,
now we are left
with the configuration as
shown in the screen here.
We are still importing
Angular just like before.
Now we have scripts/app.js file,
which means that now all the Java Script
code for Angular that we created earlier
is going to be moved to this app.js
file in that scripts folder.
In addition, I am surrounding
these two scripts lines with
build:js scripts/min.js and then endbuild.
This is for use with the useminPrepare.
The useman prepare will look
at first configuration, and
then take these two files, and
then concatenate them, and
then amplify them for
use in our distribution project.
So once we have completed
the configuration, in the next step,
we are gonna create app.js File.
Next, go to the scripts
folder inside the app folder.
And then clear the app.js file,
which would be an empty file.
Now we are going to add in the angular
script into this ab.js file.
We have already included the ab.js
file into our mini.html page.
After adding in the code,
we have essentially cut the code
from the mini.html page and then.
Paste it here and
made a couple of changes.
One change that you'll notice is that I am
simply declaring it as an angular module.
And note that I don't
have a semi-colon there,
because I am using chaining to declare
the controller immediately thereafter.
So the angular module and them I'm
saying .controller and menuController.
And inside the menuController
function definition here,
I have included all the code from the menu
html file that I have defined earlier.
And then at the end of this code,
the semicolon will close this statement.
So I have defined the angular module, and
then attached the controller
to the angular module here.
Now the app guard JS file is complete, and
can be used within our
many URL HTML pitch.
Next, I'm going to configure
the JSHint module for
use to create a Grunt task.
We are going to create
the JSHinting grunt task first.
So to do that,
let me install the JShint grunt module.
So we type in npm install
grunt-contrib-jshint--save--dev.
After this,
we're gonna install the jshint-stylish.
Next, we're going to install
a grand module called time-grunt.
The time-grunt module will keep
track of each of the tasks.
Take and then generate status ticks
at the end of the grunt line.
The next grunt module we're gonna
install is called git grunt.
The git grunt module will
automatically look inside
your node modules folder, and
then input any grant module,
then it is required in your grantfile.js.
Now, the other alternative
is to explicitly include
all the Grunt modules that
you install in the .modules
folder explicitly by using
the load grunt empty tasks.
Instead, I am circumventing that
whole process by simply saying,
require JIT grunt,
and that will take care of loading all
the grunt modules as and when required.
Just in time grunt,
that's why it's called JIT grunt.
Once we have completed that, we
are going to go to our grunt file in js,
and then configure the jshint task.
To do that to the grunt file of js5,
I'm going to first.
Require the time-grunt module and
the jit-grunt module.
So I will include those modules by saying,
gitquire timegrunt grunt,
and require jit-grunt grunt.
This will ensure that those
two modules get loaded.
Now I'm going to add the configuration for
the jshint task.
So here, I have added the configuration
information for the jshint task.
We have already examined the structure of
this configuration information
in the previous lecture.
Next, I'm going to configure
the build task and the default task.
So here I am registering the two tasks,
The build task currently I am
registering to contain only jshint.
And the default task is
the same as the built task.
So, with this, if I simply type
grunt at the command line,
then the JSHint will run and
then check all
the JavaScript files inside my app folder.
Next, I'm going to create
a file dot JSHintrc.
In the confusion folder
.jshintrc js H-I-N-T-R-C and
then include the following
code inside that folder.
Here I am specifying to jshint
what it is supposed to check.
Let's not worry about what
this configuration is,
it is just specifying some
things that the jshint.
JavaScript checker is going to check for
it.
Now at the command prompt,
if you type grunt,
it is going to run the jshint task,
and generate the output.
Fortunately, we don't have any
errors in our JavaScript file,
so that is why there is no complaint.
Let me introduce a small
error in the app js file and
then show you what that jshint
task will show as the result.
Going to the app js5,
let me just delete this semi-colon and
then save it and then run jshint and
see what the results are.
Add the command prompt.
Now if I type grunt you notice
that jshint is complaining
that in the app.js file at line
8 col 31 missing semicolon.
So this is how jshint finds out.
Part potential errors or
mistakes in your JavaScript files.
Let me go back and correct that so
that my JShint will no longer comply.
Going back to the abguardJS file,
let me restore the semicolon there and
then run JShint one more time.
Now, when I run Grunt I can see that
it says there are no further
errors in the files.
Next, I'm going to configure the copy and
clean Grunt modules.
So to do that, at the command prompt,
let me type npm
install grunt-contrib-copy and
I installed copy.
Let me next install clean.
So I type in npm install
grunt-contrib-clean--save-dev.
So, I have now installed the copy and
the clean grunt tasks.
So, let me go ahead and
configure the copy and
the clean grunt tasks,
in the grunt file gs5.
And then, we'll run grunt and
see the result going to the grunt file.
Now, I will create the copy and the clean
task configurations inside
the grunt.init.config method call.
So let me add the code for
the copy and the clean.
We have already seen this in the lecture.
So let me go ahead and
add the copy and the clean code here.
So I have added the copy and
the clean configuration here.
One thing that I should clearly warn
you is that when you add the code
make sure that there is
a configuration that already exists.
Make sure that you put a comma after
the previous configuration
that exists in the grunt file.
After adding the copy and
the clean configurations,
let me add the copy and
the clean tasks, to the build task.
So now when I run grunt,
or when I say grunt build,
it will run clean first then jshint and
copy, then it runs the copy task.
Then all the files from the app
folder will be copied to their
distribution folder.
Let's see this running and
then see the result.
Next, when you go to
the confusion folder you can see
the folder named dist
doesn't exist at the moment.
Now if you run grunt then
the distribution folder will be created.
At the command prompt type grunt.
You will note that when you type grunt,
the first,
the clean task will be executed.
It'll clean up if the distribution
folder exists it cleans up,
then the jshint task will be executed and
it'll check for errors.
And then the copy:dist
task will be run and
then it copies the files over from
the app folder to the dist folder.
At the end of this grunt run,
let's take a look at the conFusion folder.
Now, when you go to the conFusion folder.
You can see that the dist
folder has been created.
This dist folder will contain all
the files that you will upload
to your web server, so
that your website goes live.
So going into the dist folder, you can see
that the menu.html folder already exists.
All the images have been copied
into the images subfolder there.
The fonts have been copied into
the fonts subfolder there.
The scripts folder is currently empty and
the styles folder is currently empty.
Now we're going to configure useman and
run all the tasks in order to create our
combined css and
JavaScript files for our website.
In order to prepare the distribution
folder completely you are going to install
a few more grant modules, and then
configure the grant tasks correspondingly.
First we will install
the Contact Grunt module.
Next, we will install
the CSS min Grunt module.
Next, we're going to install the uglify,
module.
Then, the filereft grunt module, and
finally, the usemin grunt module.
So once we have completed
installing these,
now you can configure the css
minification and concatenation tasks.
And also the JavaScript minification and
conFusion tasks, and the usemin task.
So let's go ahead and
configure them in our grunt file.
Returning to our grunt file, I'm now
going to add in the configuration for
the usemin prepare,
that use main task, the file rev task,
and the CSS main uglify and contact tasks.
So let me add in
the corresponding code here.
We have already seen this
code in the previous lecture.
The first step I am doing,
is to configure jit-grunt,
to inform jit-grunt that for
the useminPrepare task,
the useminPrepare task is part
of the grunt-usemin task.
So that is what I am
specifying by modifying
the jit-grunt require statement here.
Next, I'm gonna include
the configuration for the tasks.
Now, you'll notice that I have
included the configuration for
the useminPrepare, the concat.
Note that the concat information
is pretty much empty.
This is going to be reconfigured by the
use main prepare task during the runtime.
Similarly, the uglify in CSS min, I have
left the configurations to be empty there.
They're gonna be configured at
runtime by the useminPrepare task.
Next, you'll see that I have
configured the filerev task,
just like the way I
explained in the lecture.
And finally,
the usemin task has been configured.
Now we're going to update
the tasks that we have registered.
The build task and the default task.
Go into the build task.
We will add in the tasks
into the build tasks here.
First we will run them in the sequence.
UseminPrepare, concat, cssmin, uglify.
Once they have completed,
then we'll do the copy, and
then after copying,
we're gonna do filerev and usemin.
So, now, the build task is complete.
Now, if I go to the command prompt and
then type grunt,
it should completely prepare
the distribution folder.
It will run all the tasks that
we have just configured and
then prepare the distribution for it.
Now let's go into
the distribution folder and
see the results of running
all of these tasks.
Interestingly, if you are interested in
what the time grunt task will produce,
you can see the statistics being
produced on the command window here,
or the terminal if you are using OSX or
Linux.
You can see that the time status takes for
each of the tasks has been
printed on the screen.
Now, going to the distribution
folder again,
let's look inside the distribution folder.
The menu.html file remains there.
The images are still there.
The fonts are still there.
Now when you go into the scripts folder
you notice that there is a main.
Notice the 20 character tag
that has been attached.
This is what filerev has
attached to the main file .js.
Similarly, if you go
into the styles folder,
you would notice that you have
main.and then a big tag here,
.css attached to the main.
Now these two, the CSS files and
the JavaScript
files are containing all
the code that we need for
our menu.html file to work correctly.
Just to show you
the contents of these files
I go into the dist folder in brackets.
And then let me open the menu.html file.
Now when you see the menu.html file,
you will notice that
the style sheet referenced
now includes only one
single CSS file there.
This is the concatenated and
minified file that we created
using the usemin task.
Going to the bottom of that menu.html
page you now can see that the scripts
Include file now says scripts/main.
Filereftac.js.
So this file contains all
the JavaScript you need,
including the angular code that we
are going to use in this project.
Now let's take a look inside these files,
the main.css and main.js file.
First, to do that I will go to the styles
folder in my distribution folder, and
then click on main.css, and
you can notice that this
main.css file contains all the code
from the boot strap folder,
everything concatenated together and
then modified,
all the extra lines have been removed.
And the whole code has been compressed and
modified in here.
This is very hard for us to read because
this is okay for a browser to read.
The browser doesn't care how the file is,
how the code is formatted.
For a human being to read, this is
going to be extremely difficult, quite.
This file is not meant for
human consumption.
This file is meant for
consumption by your browser.
In the user that comes
to visit your webpage.
This is what minification causes to your
CSS files taking a look
at that Java Script
code inside the main.JS file.
You can now see that the JavaScript code
has all been compressed and included here.
It has been uglified and
compressed and included here.
Obviously, not for human consumption.
Any way this is the result
of concatenation and
uglification of all the JavaScript code.
Now if you want to you can
open the menu.HTML5 in
your default browser and you will see
that the webpage worked correctly.
The menu.html in the distribution folders.
Let me go ahead and
double click and open it.
You can see that the web page
is being properly configured and
served in my default folder here.
That is the interesting aspect of using
Grunt to take care of all the tasks.
The last two changes that I'm gonna
make is to configure the watch and
the connect grunt modules.
So let me install the watch and
Now that I have installed the watch and
the connect grunt modules,
let me go ahead and configure them
in the grunt file or js file.
Going to the grand file now,
I'm going to add in the configuration for
both the watch and the connect tasks here.
So now you can see that I've
added in the configuration for
the watch task, and
the configuration for the connect task.
We have seen most of this
code in the lecture earlier.
The last step is to add the grunt
serve task into the Grunt file.
So now you see that I have
configured a new task called serve,
which is going to do build,
connect:dist, and watch.
After we complete these tasks,
let's go ahead and
then run grunt serve on our
command line and see that message.
At the command line, now if you
type grunt serve, this is going to
do it built,
then it's going to start up the server and
then start serving up the page
in your default browser.
And also start up the watch task so
that if you change anything
in any of the files,
then the built will
automatically be done and
the live reload with ensure.
The newer webpage will be
loaded into my server.
So let me type grunt serve and
see the result.
Once grunt serve starts running,
then you see that it automatically
switches to my default browser.
And that page has been loaded
into my default browser.
Now, to show how watch works,
I'm going to go into my HTML page and
then edit the menu.
And you will notice that this will
result in the watch task noticing that
the HTML page has been changed, and then
automatically re-running the build task.
And reload that page into the browser.
Now, I have opened the menu.html
page in the app folder.
Remember, the watch task is watching
the files in the app folder.
That is where our source files exist.
So, any changes that you make to your
source files will cause a rebuilding of
the distribution folder and
live reloading of the browser.
So, let me change this, the menu and
remove the space there.
When I remove the space,
watch and save the file.
Watch, notice that the file
has been changed and
then it will recompile all the files for
us.
Now, when I go to the browser, you will
notice that that all the build tasks have
been run one more time and
the file is now being surfed.
If you go to your browser window.
You would notice that
the menu has been updated and
this piece has been removed there.
So the live reloading of our
webpage works correctly with Grunt.
I again modified the menu page
back to its original state,
and the page has been again
reloaded by live rent.
This is their power that grunt brings
to us, the automated task runner.
This completes this exercise.
In this exercise,
you have learned how to use grunt and
how to configure the automated
tasks in grunt and
how to make use of radius grunt
modules in order to accomplish
grunt radius grunt modules tasks.